---
layout: single
title:  "Markdown 마크다운"
comments: true
categories:
    - Gitblog
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents Table"
toc_icon: "list"
tags: 
    - Markdown
    - Gitblog
---



Posts using the `Jekyll` like this blog are converted to `html` accroading to the `_post` template. Articles are written based on the `_post` template and the Markdown extension document. These articles has a `.markdown`, `.md` extension. Markdown documents are easier to write than `HTML` or `JAVA`, and have the advantage of supporting many platforms.


### Markdown   
Markdown is a plain text-based lightweight markup laaguage created in 2004 by John Gruber and Aaron Swartz. They created the Markdown language with the goal of *"Easy-to-read, easy-to-write, plain text format, optionally convert it to structurally valid XHTML (or HTML)"*. Unlike markup languages such as `html or RTF` which are clearly classified as `tag`, markdown languages focus on readability. 
Markdown is widely used since it can be easily converted to `html` and is used in `Github`. Anyone who has used Github sees `readme.md` as soon as they create their first repository, and the `.md` file is the Markdown document. Besides Github, it is used by various programs to write readme files. In addition, since Markdown file is saved as text format, the capacity is small, and it is easy to manage the change history through the version control system.


### Markdown pros and cons 


| Pros                                      | Cons                             |
|:---:                                      |:---:                             |
| Easy to write and edit                    | No strict standard               |
| Straightforward and easy grammar          | Low deformability                |
| Various supported platforms and programs  | Does not replace all HTML markup |


### Markup Markdown difference 

Talk about the difference between markup and `Markdown` is acutally meaningless. This is because `Markdown` is a markup languange. John Gruber and Aaron Swartz just named `Markdown` as an ironic expression in order to emphasize `readability`, which is the direction of `Markdown`.
Markup language is a syntax surrounded by marks. Here, a mark can be interpreted as a `tag`, and a language structure that defines the stlye and format of a document with tags such as `HTML` and `XML` is called a markup language.


#### Reference
+ Markdown related  
https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EB%A7%88%ED%81%AC%EB%8B%A4%EC%9A%B4
+ Markup & Markdown related  
https://cordelia273.space/15
