---
layout: single
title:  "[C] Graph"
categories:
    - C/C++
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents Table"
toc_icon: "list"
tags: 
    - C
    - Programming
---


A graph is a nonlinear data structure that expresses the relationship between objects, and expresses a many-to-many relationship. It should be noted that graphs in C language are different from the concepts of graphs in other languages ​​and commonly used. The graph is mainly represented by `G` and is defined as information of `V` and `E` like `G=(V,E)`. `V` represents the relationship that is the target of the graph, that is, the vertex, and `E` represents the edge, which means the relationship between the vertices. Types of graphs can be classified into direction graphs and non-direction graphs depending on whether the edge has a direction or not. The non-directed graph is a graph that has no direction on the edge connecting the two vertices, and is expressed as `(V1, V2)`, and the directional graph is `<V1, V2>` because accessibility between the vertices is limited due to the directionality of the edge. The path is a list of all the vertices encountered when going from the vertex `V_i` to `V_j` in order, and the number of edges at that time is called the path length.



There are two ways to implement a graph: an adjacency matrix method using a two-dimensional array and an adjacency list method using a linked list. This article introduces the adjacency matrix method. The adjacency matrix method constructs a `n x n` square matrix for the number of target vertices `n`, and allocates `1/0` by referring to the row and column indexes for the presence or absence of edges from `V_i` to `V_j`. Since the diagonal component means the vertex itself, it is always 0, and since the undirected graph has no direction, a symmetric matrix is created.



Pictures related to the graph concept will be updated in the future.

